Refs #14831 — Added Template Style Guide (#17928)
django/django: docs/internals/contributing/writing-code/coding-style.txt

Template style
==============

Follow the below rules in Django template code.

> * The ``{% extends %}`` should be the first non-comment line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``{% extends %}`` should be the first non-comment line.
```

  Do this:

  .. code-block:: html+django

      {% extends "base.html" %}

      {% block content %}
        <h1 class="font-semibold text-xl">
          {{ pages.title }}
        </h1>
      {% endblock content %}

  Or this:

  .. code-block:: html+django

      {# This is a comment #}
      {% extends "base.html" %}

      {% block content %}
        <h1 class="font-semibold text-xl">
          {{ pages.title }}
        </h1>
      {% endblock content %}

  Don't do this:

  .. code-block:: html+django

      {% load i18n %}
      {% extends "base.html" %}

      {% block content %}
        <h1 class="font-semibold text-xl">
          {{ pages.title }}
        </h1>
      {% endblock content %}

> * Put one (and only one) space between the curly brackets and the tag contents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Put exactly one space between ``{{``, variable contents, and ``}}``.
```

  Do this:

  .. code-block:: html+django

      {{ user }}

  Don't do this:

  .. code-block:: html+django

      {{user}}

> * The ``{% load ... %}`` should list items in alphabetical order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In ``{% load ... %}``, list libraries in alphabetical order.
```

  Do this:

  .. code-block:: html+django

      {% load i18n l10 tz %}

  Don't do this:

  .. code-block:: html+django

      {% load l10 i18n tz %}

> * Put one (and only one) space between the curly brackets, the ``%``, and the
>   tag contents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Put exactly one space between ``{%``, tag contents, and ``%}``.
```

  Do this:

  .. code-block:: html+django

      {% load humanize %}

  Don't do this:

  .. code-block:: html+django

      {%load humanize%}

> * Each ``{% block %}`` should be named with the  ``{% endblock %}`` having the
>   matching name.

Reviewer: Using names on the same line is a bit verbose?

```suggestion
* Put the ``{% block %}`` tag name in the ``{% endblock %}`` tag if it is not on the same line.
```

Reviewer 2: I think it's still worth doing, as `block` are intended to be extended in templates.

Reviewer: But the same syntax is used for filling in. `{% block title %}Something{% endblock %}` is clear enough to me.

Reviewer 2: Agreed, updated.

Template style
==============

* In Django template code: 

>   The ``{% extends %}`` should be the first non-comment line

Reviewer 2: We should render this as a list
```
* In Django template code, the ``{% extends %}`` should be ...

  ...

* Put one (and only one) space between the curly brackets and the tag contents.

  ....

* Put one (and only one) space between the curly brackets,  the ``%``, and the
  tag contents.

  ...
```
etc.

Reviewer: Let’s also put the “In Django template code” in a full sentence before the list, something like:

```
Follow the below rules in Django template code.

* The ``{% extends %}`` should be ...
```

  Do this:

  .. code-block:: html+django

>       {% extends %}

Reviewer 2: `extends` must extend something, so I'd add an ellipsis, or (even better) a template name: 
```suggestion
      {% extends "base.html" %}
```

>       Other code goes here

Reviewer: Let’s replace this with a realistic second line:

```suggestion
      {% block content %}
      ...
```

...and in below examples.

  Or this:

  .. code-block:: html+django

>       # This is a comment

Reviewer 3: That's a _python_ comment, isn't it? It'd be `{# ... #}` (or, technically also `{% comment %} ... {% endcomment %}`) for the template language.

Reviewer 2: Good catch :+1: Please use `{# .... #}`.

      {% extends %}

      Other code goes here

  Don't do this:

  .. code-block:: html+django

>       {% load foo %}

Reviewer: Let’s avoid using “foo” / “bar” since they’re meaningless and unrealistic examples that can confuse new people. I know the existing example did, but we can change that.

For example, here, we can name a real template library:

```suggestion
      {% load i18n %}
```

Below we could use `{% load humanize i18n %}`, and variables like `{{ user }}` , `{{ user.name|lower }}`, `{% block header %}`, etc.

Template style
==============

Follow the below rules in Django template code. 

In Django template code: 

> 

Reviewer 2: Should be already fixed.

>   The ``{% extends %}`` should be the first non-comment line

Reviewer 2: As far as I'm aware, I already fixed this :thinking:

>   The ``{% extends %}`` should be the first non-comment line

Reviewer: This was a comment I wrote 2 days ago that I accidentally didn't post until just now, mea culpa!

      {{foo}}

  Put each ``{% load foo %}`` on it's own line

  Do this:

  .. code-block:: html+django

      {% load foo %}
      {% load bar %}

  Don't do this:

  .. code-block:: html+django

      {% load foo bar %}

> 

Reviewer 2: Is this really something that we want to recommend? There is nothing wrong in loading multiple libraries at once. I'd remove it.

Reviewer 2: And we do this in Django itself.

Reviewer: Fair enough. I proposed the one-per-line rule to reduce diff noise, but it is a bit overbearing. Perhaps we could instead request the list be sorted alphabetically? That makes it a bit easier to skim.

>   Put one (and only one) space between the curly brackets, 
>   the ``%`` and the tag contents.

Reviewer 2: Wrap new docs at 79 chars and use a serial comma.
```suggestion
  Put one (and only one) space between the curly brackets,  the ``%``, and the
  tag contents.
```

  Do this:

  .. code-block:: html+django

      {% foo %}

  Don't do this:

  .. code-block:: html+django

      {%foo%}

>   Each ``{% block %}`` should be named with the  ``{% endblock %}`` 

Reviewer 2: Avoid trailing spaces and multiple spaces:
```suggestion
  Each ``{% block %}`` should be named with the ``{% endblock %}``
```

  having the matching name

  Do this:

  .. code-block:: html+django

      {% block foo %}

      Code goes here

      {% endblock foo %}

  Don't do this:

  .. code-block:: html+django

      {% block foo %}

      Code goes here

      {% endblock %}

> * Inside curly braces, tokens are separated by single spaces, 
>   except filters where the ``|`` has no spaces around it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Inside curly braces, separate tokens by single spaces, 
  except for around the ``.`` for attribute access and
  the ``|`` for a filter.
```

>   Do this:
> 
>   .. code-block:: html+django
> 
>     {{ foo.bar|upper }}
> 
>   Don't do this:
> 
>   .. code-block:: html+django
> 
>     {{ foo.bar | upper }}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Do this:

  .. code-block:: html+django

    {% if user.name|lower == "admin" %}

  Don't do this:

  .. code-block:: html+django

    {% if user . name | lower  ==  "admin" %}
```
